# newprogram
A C program to initiate a new C programming project.

## What it will do for you
1. It will create a new named project directory within your designated
programs directory.
2. It will generate your _Makefile.am_ within your new project directory.
3. Optionally provide a list of software dependencies within the
_Makefile.am_ and hardlink those software files into your project
directory if they reside within a named software source library or copy
boilerplate files into the project directory if they reside in a named
_Stubs_ directory.
4. Optionally name files for _extra distribution_ within the
_Makefile.am._
5. Automatically provide the code in _Makefile.am_ to name the project
manpage.

### Naming conventions
The names within the project are determined by the name you use when you
run the program.
For example
```
newprogram [option] SomeThing
```
1. Source directory will be: _Something_
2. The binary will be: _something_
3. Source code will be: _something.c_
4. And the manpage: _something.1_

No matter what case you use for the target name, the case of the
resulting objects will be as shown above.

### The program generated it's own _Makefile.am_

#### Invocation
```
newprogram --depends 'dirs.c+h files.c+h str.c+h firstrun.c+h' -o -x
'prdata.cfg am.mak' Newprogram
```

#### The _Makefile.am_ that was made
```
#generated by newprogram

#AM_CFLAGS=-Wall -Wextra -O2 -D_GNU_SOURCE=1
# Set up initially to use GDB, change to optimised afterward.
AM_CFLAGS=-Wall -Wextra -g -O0 -D_GNU_SOURCE=1

bin_PROGRAMS=newprogram

newprogram_SOURCES=newprogram.c dirs.c dirs.h files.c files.h str.c \
str.h firstrun.c firstrun.h gopt.h gopt.c

man_MANS=newprogram.1

# next lines to be hand edited
# send <whatever> to $(prefix)/share/
newdir=$(datadir)/newprogram
new_DATA=prdata.cfg am.mak
# Ensure that newprogram.1 and any other config files get put in the
# tarball. Also stops `make distcheck` bringing an error.
EXTRA_DIST=newprogram.1 prdata.cfg am.mak
```
This file is as generated by _newprogram_ except that I inserted the
line break at _newprogram_SOURCES_.

## What you must do.

After you have built and installed the program you will need to have, or
create a directory where program files reside. In addition to that you
will need to have or make two directories under the
_Programs_ directory. In my setup I have them as
_Srclib/Stubs_ and _Srclib/Components_. _Stubs_ is used for boilerplate
code that is to be copied into the project dir. The
_Components_ sub dir is to hold working library software in source code
form.

On first run of _newprogram_ configuration files will be copied in to
_$HOME/.config/newprogram/_ and you will be invited to edit those files
so as to name your own directory structure.

### Your source code library and boilerplate source

Presently **newprogram** uses no files from the boilerplate because the
boilerplate that is used is installed as config files in the
_$HOME/.config/newprogram_ directory, and is edited by **newprogram** to
provide complete C program files to function as needed by the user
selected options.
The other header and C files may or may not be useful for your needs. If
they are they can be linked into the _Components_ sub dir along with
whatever other library source software is in your possession.
